This is a Drupal 7 Module development course :


Course Overview

In this course, you will learn to build your own custom modules for Drupal.Covering the Drupal 7 core API and the Views module API,
you will discover the most commonly-used Drupal hooks and functions and find out how to use the Drupal  documentation to learn about the rest. 
You will develop several modules step-by-step, while following best practices to ensure maintainability and interoperability with other modules. This course covers the Drupal hook system, the database API, the form API, Views module API, security and performance best practices. 
This course is taught by a practicing Drupal developer and will take a pragmatic approach to development based on real-world experience.

Who is it for?

This course is for anyone who wants to create their own Drupal modules. 
It targeted a web developers, system integrators, and anyone who want to tweak Drupal 
behavior to meet their needs.

Pre-requisites: This course was designed for those who have experience with Drupal site building and knowledge of PHP. Students without PHP experience should consider taking our PHP Bootcamp for Drupal class. Those without Drupal experience should take Building Websites with Drupal 7

Topics

In this class, you will learn:

Drupal Programming Basics

How Drupal works (the bootstrap process)
The Drupal hook system
Creating Drupal blocks
Executing page callbacks with the menu system
Working with users
Working with nodes
Styling output with the theme system
Drupal code standards
The Database API
Using db_query()
Using the object-oriented database API
Getting a limited range of results
Using drupal_write_record()
Creating tables on module install: The Schema API
Accessing external databases from Drupal
The Drupal Form API
Creating forms in Drupal
Form validation and processing
Changing forms created by other modules
Adding autocompletes to text fields
Security and Performance
Proper handling of user-submitted data
Adding and enforcing permissions and access callbacks
Using the Drupal cache system to increase performance
The Views module API
Exposing custom database tables to Views (so your tables are available to select in the Views interface)
Altering database queries generated by Views (for more complex queries that can not be specified from Views interface)
Overriding Views output
Modifying Contrib Modules and Drupal Core
Best practices for altering Drupal core and contrib module code
Creating and applying code patches
